\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename darkman.info
@settitle darkman.el
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@copying
Copyright (C) 2023 Aziz Ben Ali.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
Documentation License".

@end quotation
@end copying

@finalout
@titlepage
@title darkman.el
@author Aziz Ben Ali
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top darkman.el



This is the manual for @samp{darkman.el} version 0.5.0.

@itemize
@item
Homepage: @uref{https://grtcdr.tn/darkman.el}
@item
Repository: @uref{https://github.com/grtcdr/darkman.el}
@end itemize
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Installation::
* Usage::
* Tips::
* Debugging::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Usage

* Other functions::

Tips

* Working alongside the built-in safety features::
* Disabling existing themes::

Debugging

* Is D-Bus running?::
* Is Darkman running?::
* Is Emacs built with D-Bus support?::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Installation
@chapter Installation

@quotation
In an effort to keep the instructions concise, portable and applicable
no matter the situation, this section will not list every possible
method through which you can install the package, only the most basic.

@end quotation

Begin by cloning the repository:

@example
git clone --branch 0.5.0 https://github.com/grtcdr/darkman.el darkman
@end example

Next, add the package to your @uref{https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Lisp-Libraries.html, load path}:

@lisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "darkman")
@end lisp

Finally, require the package like so:

@lisp
(require 'darkman)
@end lisp

@node Usage
@chapter Usage

In your @samp{init.el} file, define which theme is associated with which
mode. By default, @emph{modus-themes} will be used, but we'll choose the
@emph{tango} variants in this example.

@lisp
(setq darkman-themes '(:light tango :dark tango-dark))
@end lisp

You can also use @samp{M-x customize-group darkman RET} to customize the
variable.

@samp{darkman.el} can listen for any signals to change the theme without
requiring you to manually create any scripts. You can enable this
behavior by enabling the minor mode:

@lisp
(darkman-mode)
@end lisp

You should not call @samp{load-theme} in your configuration as
@samp{darkman-mode} when enabled will do that for you, even on startup.

@menu
* Other functions::
@end menu

@node Other functions
@section Other functions

@samp{M-x darkman-toggle} will toggle the mode of the Darkman service from
within Emacs.

Additionally, you can use the @samp{darkman-get} and @samp{darkman-set}
functions to manually get and set the mode of the service
respectively.

@node Tips
@chapter Tips

@menu
* Working alongside the built-in safety features::
* Disabling existing themes::
@end menu

@node Working alongside the built-in safety features
@section Working alongside the built-in safety features

@samp{load-theme} is part of the @samp{custom.el} library and it comes with
certain @uref{https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Custom-Themes.html, security features} that you may regard as inconvenient, but
they're absolutely necessary to preserve the security of your
system. We have decided to work hand in hand with these pre-existing
safety mechanisms in favor of implementing our own.

Problems will arise if this package is loaded too early during the
initialization phase, i.e. before @samp{custom-file}, you can @uref{https://github.com/grtcdr/darkman.el/pull/7#issuecomment-1422666665, prevent this
from happening} by activating the mode only when the session has been
fully initialized.

@node Disabling existing themes
@section Disabling existing themes

Emacs does not by default disable the current theme when another one
is loaded, and while this behavior might seem unintuitive, we can
always advise @samp{darkman-set} (and by extension @samp{darkman-toggle}), or
even @samp{load-theme} if you prefer, to disable any existing themes first.

@lisp
(defadvice darkman-set (before no-theme-stacking activate)
  "Disable the previous theme before loading a new one."
  (mapc #'disable-theme custom-enabled-themes))
@end lisp

@node Debugging
@chapter Debugging

@menu
* Is D-Bus running?::
* Is Darkman running?::
* Is Emacs built with D-Bus support?::
@end menu

@node Is D-Bus running?
@section Is D-Bus running?

Use your service manager to verify whether the service is running,
here's an example using @samp{systemd}:

@example
systemctl status dbus
@end example

@example
dbus.service - D-Bus System Message Bus
   Loaded: loaded
   Active: active (running)
@end example

@node Is Darkman running?
@section Is Darkman running?

Use your service manager to verify whether the service is running,
here's an example using @samp{systemd}:

@example
systemctl status --user darkman
@end example

@example
● darkman.service - Framework for dark-mode and light-mode transitions.
     Loaded: loaded
     Active: active (running)
@end example

@node Is Emacs built with D-Bus support?
@section Is Emacs built with D-Bus support?

Usually it is, unless you're building from source, in which case you
can verify whether or not Emacs was built with D-Bus support using
@samp{C-h v system-configuration-features RET} which should list @samp{DBUS}.

@bye